Add EIP-5851: On-Chain Verifiable Credentials (#5851)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-5851.md

---
eip: 5851

> title: ZK-based-KYC-certificates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Zero-Knowledge KYC Certificates
```

description: Interface for assigning/validating identities using Zero Knowledge Proofs
author: Yu Liu (@yuliu-debond), Dhruv Malik (@dhruvmalik007)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5185-kyc-certification-issuer-and-verifier-standard/11513
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-10-18
requires: 721, 1155, 3643, 5114
---

## Abstract

- This EIP Provides defined interface for KYC verification with abstract onchain conditions.

> - This EIP defines the necessary interface for orchestrator to assign identity certificates (as Soulbound tokens) to the wallets, which can be verified by ZK schemes.

Reviewer: Should be a paragraph, not bullet points.

## Motivation

> Onchain verification is becoming indispensable across DeFI as well as other web3 protocols (DAO, governance) as its needed not only by the government for regulatory purposes, but also by different DeFI protocols to whitelist the users which fullfill the certain criterias.This created the necessity of building onchain verification of the addresses for token transfers (like stablecoin providers check for the blacklisted entities for the destination address, limited utility tokens for a DAO community , etc). Along with the concern that current whitelisting process of the proposals are based on the addition of the whitelisted addresses (via onchain/offchain signatures) and thus its not trustless for truly decentralised protocols.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On-chain verification is becoming indispensable across web3 (particularly in DeFi, DAO, and governance) as it is needed not only by the government for regulatory purposes, but also by protocols to whitelist users fulfilling certain criteria. This created the necessity of building on-chain verification of the addresses for token transfers (like stablecoin providers checking for blacklisted entities for the destination address, limited utility tokens for a DAO community, etc). Finally, the existing proposals are based on a trusted entity creating on-chain/off-chain signatures to manage a whitelist and are thus not decentralized protocols.
```

> Also Current standards in the space, like [eip-3643](./eip-3643.md) are insufficient to handle the complex usecases where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, existing standards like [eip-3643](./eip-3643.md) are insufficient to handle the complex use cases where:
```

> - The validation logic needs to be more complex than verification of the user identity wrt the blacklisted address that is defined offchain, and is very gas inefficient.

Reviewer: The gas inefficiency bit has an unclear antecedent. What part of this is inefficient?

Author: indeed right, what i wanted to convey that the process of interactive verification (to and fro calls from the KYC controller and the certificate ) is gas costs inefficient. thanks I will describe the intent correctly.

> - Also privacy enhanced/anonymous verification is important need by the crypto users in order to insure censorship/trustless networks. ZK based verification schemes are currently the only way to validate the assertion of the identity by the user, while keeping certain aspects of the providers identity completely private.

Reviewer: If you're using a bullet point list, you don't need to have an "Also":

```suggestion
- Privacy-enhanced/anonymous verification is an important need by crypto users in order to insure censorship-resistant and trustless networks. ZK (zero-knowledge) verification schemes are currently the only way to validate the assertion of the identity by the user while keeping aspects of the provider's identity completely private.
```

> thus in order to address the above major challenges: there is need of standard that defines the interface of contract which can issue an immutable identity for the identifier (except by the user) along with verifying the identity of the user based on the ownership of the given identity token.

Reviewer: As you are making a standard that has the above motivation, this is implicit and should be removed.

```suggestion
```

## Specification

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

> ### Definitions

Reviewer: Suggestion: define ZK, as it might not be a well-known acronym

```suggestion
### Definitions

- ZK: Zero-knowledge. Refers to a cryptographic system in which a characteristic of an entity can be proven without revealing which entity the proof refers to.
```

- SBT: Soulbound tokens, these are non-fungible and non transferrable tokens that is used for defining the identity of the users. they are defined by standard [eip-5192](./eip-5192.md).

- SBT Certificates: SBT that represent the ownerships of ID signatures corresponding to the requirements defined in `function standardRequirement()`.

- KYC standard: Know your customer standard are the set of minimum viable conditions that financial services providers (banks, investment providers and other intermediate financial intermediateries) have to satisfy in order to access the services. this in web3 consideration concerns not about the details about the user itself, but about its status (onchain usage, total balance by the anon wallet, etc) that can be used for whitelisting.

### Diagram

> [diagram](../assets/eip-zkID/architecture-diagram.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![diagram](../assets/eip-5851/architecture-diagram.png)
```
Pretty sure images need to be prefixed with `!`.

> example workflow using preimage verification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

example workflow using preimage verification:
```

---
eip: 5851

> title: ZK-based-KYC-certificates

Reviewer: I still think this title is better:
```suggestion
title: Zero-Knowledge KYC Certificates
```

description: Interface for assigning/validating identities using Zero Knowledge Proofs
author: Yu Liu (@yuliu-debond), Dhruv Malik (@dhruvmalik007)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5185-kyc-certification-issuer-and-verifier-standard/11513
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-10-18
requires: 721, 1155, 3643, 5114
---

## Abstract

- This EIP Provides defined interface for KYC verification with abstract onchain conditions.

> - This EIP defines the necessary interface for orchestrator to assign identity certificates (as Soulbound tokens) to the wallets, which can be verified by ZK schemes.

Author: sorry, skipped from previous review

    e.g : emit standardChanged(1,Requirement(Metadata('depositRequirement','number', 'defines the max deposited that user can have in denomination of USDC' ), "<=", "30000");
    defines that holder of the identifier has been changed to the condition which allows the certificate holder to call the functions with modifier , only after the deposit in the address is not greater than 30000 USDC.
    */
    event standardChanged(uint256 SBTID, Requirement[] _requirement);
    /** 
    * certified
    * @notice certified MUST be triggered when SBT certificate is given to the certifiying address. 
    * eg: certified( 0xfoo,2); means that wallet holder address 0xfoo is certified to hold certificate issued with id 2 , and thus can satisfy all the confitions defined by the required interface.
    */
    event certified(address certifying, uint256 SBTID);
    /** 
    * revoked
    * @notice revoked MUST be triggered when SBT certificate is revoked. 
    * eg : revoked( 0xfoo,1); means that entity user 0xfoo has been revoked to all the function access defined by the the SBT ID 1.
    */
    event revoked(address certifying, uint256 SBTID);
```

> ## Rationale

Reviewer: It appears that you misunderstand the Rationale section. This section is for explaining the design choices made, not for explaining the design choices.

> We follow the structure of onchain metadata storage similar to that of [eip-3475](./eip-3475.md), except the fact that whole KYC requirement description is defined like the class from the eip-3475 standard but with only single condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The structure of on-chain metadata storage is similar to that of [EIP-3475](./eip-3475.md), except that the KYC requirement has only a single condition.
```

> Following are the descriptions of the structures:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The descriptions of the structures are as follows:
```

> **1.Metadata structure**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Metadata Structure
```

> ```solidity

Reviewer: This appears to be specification. Are you sure you put this in the right section?

        - thus during the verification stage, the verifier will be provided with the pre-image of the proofs along with the public information. then via offchain, the admin will compute the merkle root of the given information and then assign the SBT certificate to the user.
* Once the certificate is obtained, the functions that assign the `SBTID` to the given user will be enabled.

### Functions

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

interface IERC5851 {
    // getter function 
    /// @notice getter function to validate if the address `verifying` is the holder of the SBT defined by the tokenId `SBTID`
    /// @dev it MUST be defining the logic corresponding to all the current possible requirements definition.
    /// @param verifying is the EOA address that wants to validate the SBT issued to it by the KYC. 
    /// @param SBTID is the Id of the SBT that user is the claimer.
    /// @return true if the assertion is valid, else false
    /**
    example ifVerified(0xfoo, 1) --> true will mean that 0xfoo is the holder of the SBT identity token defined by tokenId of the given collection. 
    */

>     function ifVerified(address verifying, uint256 SBTID) external view returns (bool);

Reviewer 2: `isVerified` could be a better name

    /// @param `requirements` is the struct array of all the descriptions of condition metadata that is defined by the administrator. check metadata section for more information.
/**
example: changeStandardRequirement(1, { "title":"DepositRequirement",
    "type": "number",
    "description": "defines the minimum deposit in USDC for the investor along with the credit score",
    },
    "logic": "and",
    "values":{"30000", "5"}
}); 
will correspond to the the functionality that admin needs to adjust the standard requirement for the identification SBT with tokenId = 1, based on the conditions described in the Requirements array struct details.
**/
    function changeStandardRequirement(uint256 SBTID, Requirement[] memory requirements) external returns (bool);

    /// @notice function which uses the ZKProof protocol in order to validate the identity based on the given 
    /// @dev it should only be called by the admin address.
    /// @param SBTID is the Id of the SBT based identity certificate for which admin wants to define the Requirements.
    /// @param certifying is the address that needs to be proven as the owner of the SBT defined by the tokenID.

>     /// @param `requirements` is the struct array of all the descriptions of condition metadata that is defined by the administrator. check metadata section for more information.

Reviewer 2: No `requirements` param within certify

    function certify(address certifying, uint256 SBTID) external returns (bool);

    /// @notice function which uses the ZKProof protocol in order to validate the identity based on the given 
    /// @dev it should only be called by the admin address.
    /// @param SBTID is the Id of the SBT based identity certificate for which admin wants to define the Requirements.
    /// @param certifying is the address that needs to be proven as the owner of the SBT defined by the tokenID.

>     /// @param `requirements` is the struct array of all the descriptions of condition metadata that is defined by the administrator. check metadata section for more information.

Reviewer 2: Same as above

    function revoke(address certifying, uint256 SBTID) external returns (bool);

}
```

### events

```solidity

/** 

    interface IERC5851 {
    * standardChanged
    * @notice standardChanged MUST be triggered when requirements are changed by the admin. 
    * @dev standardChanged MUST also be triggered for the creation of a new SBTID.
    e.g : emit standardChanged(1,Requirement(Metadata('depositRequirement','number', 'defines the max deposited that user can have in denomination of USDC' ), "<=", "30000");
    defines that holder of the identifier has been changed to the condition which allows the certificate holder to call the functions with modifier , only after the deposit in the address is not greater than 30000 USDC.
    */
    event standardChanged(uint256 SBTID, Requirement[] _requirement);
    /** 
    * certified
    * @notice certified MUST be triggered when SBT certificate is given to the certifiying address. 
    * eg: certified( 0xfoo,2); means that wallet holder address 0xfoo is certified to hold certificate issued with id 2 , and thus can satisfy all the confitions defined by the required interface.
    */

>     event certified(address certifying, uint256 SBTID);

Reviewer 2: Would prefer PascalCase for events i.e `Certified` to differentiate from function

status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-10-18
requires: 721, 1155, 1167, 1967, 3643, 5114
---
## Abstract

This EIP Provides a defined interface for KYC verification of entities consisting of decentralized identifiers (DID), with abstract onchain conditions. It does this by defining the necessary interface for the identity orchestrator for assigning the identity certificates (such as SBT tokens for  Verifiable Credentials) to the wallets, which can then be verified by ZK schemes.

## Motivation

On-chain verification is becoming indispensable across web3 based on the concerns of regulations against financial protocols, but also by protocols to whitelist users fulfilling certain criteria but being fully transparent and keeping the anonymity of the user. This created the necessity of building on-chain verification of the addresses for token transfers (like stablecoin providers checking for blacklisted entities for the destination address, limited utility tokens for a DAO community, etc). Finally, the existing proposals are based on a trusted entity creating on-chain/off-chain signatures to manage a whitelist and are thus not decentralized protocols.

> Also, existing standards for transferring the regulated tokens within not whitelisted entities like [EIP-3643](./eip-3643.md) are insufficient to handle the complex use cases where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, existing standards for transferring regulated tokens within denylisted entities like [EIP-3643](./eip-3643.md) are insufficient to handle complex use cases where:
```

    e.g : emit StandardChanged(1, Requirement(Metadata('depositRequirement','number', 'defines the max deposited that user can have in the denomination of USDC' ), "<=", "30000");
    is emitted when  the Requirement condition is changed  which allows the certificate holder to call the functions with the modifier, only after the deposit in the address is not greater than 30000 USDC.
    */
    event StandardChanged(uint256 SBTID, Requirement[] _requirement);
    /** 
    * certified
    * @notice certified MUST be triggered when the SBT certificate is given to the certifying address. 
    * eg: Certified(0xfoo,2); means that wallet holder address 0xfoo is certified to hold a certificate issued with id 2, and thus can satisfy all the conditions defined by the required interface.
    */
    event Certified(address certifying, uint256 SBTID);
    /** 
    * revoked
    * @notice revoked MUST be triggered when the SBT certificate is revoked. 
    * eg: Revoked( 0xfoo,1); means that entity user 0xfoo has been revoked to all the function access defined by the SBT ID 1.
    */
    event Revoked(address certifying, uint256 SBTID);
}

> ```

Reviewer: Why not combine these?

Author: Actually, we just wanted to show them separately for users to understand but i will combine if that's recommended

### Metadata structure

The structure of on-chain metadata storage follows a similar pattern as that of [EIP-3475](./eip-3475.md) and is described as the following type:

```solidity
    /**
     * @dev metadata that describes the Values structure on the given requirement. 
     * example: 
    {   "title": "jurisdiction",
        "_type": "string",
        "description": "two-word code defining legal jurisdiction"
        }
    * @notice it can be further optimized by using efficient encoding schemes (like TLV etc) and there can be a tradeoff in the gas costs of storing large strings vs encoding/decoding costs while describing the standard.

>      */

Reviewer: Invalid natspec

    struct Metadata {
        string title;
        string _type;
        string description;
    }
    /**
     * @dev Values here can be read and written by smart contract and front-end, cited from [EIP-3475].
     example : 
{
 jurisdiction = IERC5851.stringValue("CH");
}

>      */

Reviewer: More invalid natspec

    struct Values { 
        string stringValue;
        uint uintValue;
        address addressValue;
        bool boolValue;
    }
```

> **2. Requirement structure:**

Reviewer: Use headings for headings:
```suggestion
#### Requirement structure:
```

This will be stored in each of the SBT certificates that will define the conditions that need to be satisfied by the owner of the certificate when any verifier (of the DeFI protocol functions) calling the `isVerified()` function, to be validated to run the function, this will be defined for each onchain `Values` separately.

```solidity
    /**
     * @dev structure that DeFines the parameters for specific requirements of the SBT certificate
     * @notice this structure is used for the verification process, it contains the metadata, logic, and expectation
     * @logic given here MUST be one of ("⊄", "⊂", "<", "<=", "==", "!=", ">=",">")
     ex: standardRequirement => {
    { "title": "adult",
        "type": "uint",
        "description": "client holders age to be gt 18 yrs.",
        },
       "logic": ">=",
    "value": "18" 
}
Defines the condition encoded for the identity index 1, DeFining the identity condition that the holder must be more than 18 years old.

>     */

Reviewer: Very invalid natspec.

    struct Requirement {
        Metadata metadata;
        string logic;
        Values expectation;
    }
```

## Rationale

> For the standard interface functions, we followed the implementation of the W3C DID specification, which defines the components of the data registry, DID identifier. thus we represented the same properties in our standard using the Verifier and SBT standard. Also to define the metadata (URL, topics, subjects, and the identifier), we followed the metadata definition as [eip-3475](./eip-3475.md) with the possibility to define context metadata and verification condition within the single contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the standard interface functions, we followed the implementation of the W3C DID specification, which defines the components of the data registry and DID identifier. We represented the same properties in our standard using the Verifier and SBT standards.

To define the metadata (URL, topics, subjects, and the identifier), we followed the metadata definition in a manner similar to the one used in [EIP-3475](./eip-3475.md) with the possibility of defining context metadata and verification conditions within single contracts.
```

## Backwards Compatibility

> - The ERC standard remains backward compliant for previous versions for cases that only do the changes in schema of the requirements structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This EIP is backward compliant for previous versions for cases that only do the changes in the schema of the requirements structure.
```

> - In case of the changes like the logic of verification protocol, developers will have to use proxy contract patterns like [eip-1967](./eip-1967.md) which will route the `isVerified()`function call based on the version of verifier contracts the SBT was issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In case of the changes like the logic of verification protocol, developers will have to use proxy contract patterns like [EIP-1967](./eip-1967.md) which will route the `isVerified()` function call based on the version of verifier contracts the SBT was issued.
```
Not sure if this sentence should be in this section. What you have here is forwards compatibility, not backwards compatibility. This is useful nonetheless though.

## Test Cases

> Test-case for the minimal reference implementation is [here](../assets/eip-5851/contracts/test.sol) for using transaction verification regarding whether the users hold the tokens or not. Use the remix to compile and test the contracts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test cases for the minimal reference implementation can be found [here](../assets/eip-5851/contracts/test.sol) for using transaction verification regarding whether the users hold the tokens or not. Use Remix IDE to compile and test the contracts.
```

## Reference Implementation

> The interface standard is divided into two separated implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interface standard is divided into two separate implementations:
```

> - [verifier_modifier](../assets/eip-5851/contracts/verification_modifier.sol) is the simple modifier that needs to be imported by the functions that are to be only called by holders of the SBT certificates. this essentially is wrapper contract of the eip `verify()`method and can also be implemented for arbitrary types of contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [verifier_modifier](../assets/eip-5851/contracts/verification_modifier.sol) is a simple modifier that needs to be imported by functions that are to be only called by holders of the SBT certificates. This is a wrapper contract of this EIP's `verify()` method and can be implemented for arbitrary types of contract.
```

> - [SBT_certification](../assets/eip-5851/contracts/SBT_certification.sol) is the example of identity certificate that can be assigned by the KYC controller contract. this implements all th functions and events in the standard interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [SBT_certification](../assets/eip-5851/contracts/SBT_certification.sol) is an example of an identity certificate that can be assigned by a KYC controller contract. This is a full implementation of the standard interface.
```

Author: refactoring certification point

> Apart from that there is [example script](../assets/eip-5851/script/createProof.js) that allows the creation of proofs off-chain which can then be initialized by admin contract in order to validate the `isVerified()` function for given contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is also an [example script](../assets/eip-5851/script/createProof.js) that allows the creation of proofs off-chain which can then be initialized by an admin contract in order to validate the `isVerified()` function for a given contract.
```

## Specification

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Definitions

- ZKP: stands for Zero-knowledge Proof which means that a prover can convince a verifier that an assertion is correct without providing any useful information to the verifier.

- SBT: Known as Soulbound tokens, these are non-fungible and non-transferrable tokens that is used for defining the identity of the users.

- SBT Certificates: SBT that represent the ownerships of ID signatures corresponding to the claims defined in `function standardClaim()`.

- Verifiable credentials (VC): A Verifiable Credential is a collection of claims made by an issuer. These are temper evident credentials that allow the holders to prove that they posses certain characteristics (for example, passport verification, constraints like value of tokens in your wallet, etc) as demanded by the verifier entity.

> - Claims: Decentralised Identity(DID) Claims are a set of assertions that the DID Holder must fulfill to be verified.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Claim: An assertion that the DID Holder must fulfill to be verified.
```

> - Holder: The holder is the entity that stores the claim, such as a digital identity provider or a DID registry. The holder is responsible for validating the claim and providing verifiable evidence of the claim.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Holder: The entity that stores the claim, such as a digital identity provider or a DID registry. The holder is responsible for validating the claim and providing verifiable evidence of the claim.
```

> - Claimer: A claimer is the party making a claim, such as in an identity verification process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Claimer: The party making a claim, such as in an identity verification process.
```

> - Issuer: An entity creates a verifiable credential from claims about one or more subjects to a holder. Example issuers include governments, corporations, non-profit organizations, trade associations, and individuals.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Issuer: The entity that creates a verifiable credential from claims about one or more subjects to a holder. Example issuers include governments, corporations, non-profit organizations, trade associations, and individuals.
```

> - Verifier: A verifier in DID is an entity that validates data provided by an issuer of verifiable credentials, determining its accuracy, origin, currency and trustworthiness.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Verifier: An entity that validates data provided by an issuer of verifiable credentials, determining its accuracy, origin, currency and trustworthiness.
```

### Metadata Standard

> Claims MUST be stored in the following structures:

Reviewer 3: Like I said in my previous review, EIPs shouldn't make requirements about the implementation:

```suggestion
Claims MUST be exposed in the following structures:
```

#### 1. Metadata information

Each claim requirement MUST be exposed using the following struct:

```solidity
    /** Metadata
    * 
    * @param title defines the name of the claim field
    * @param kind is the nature of the data (bool,string,address,bytes,..)

>     * @param description additional information about claim details.

Reviewer 3: Is this meant to be a human-readable field, or is this machine readable like `kind`?

Reviewer 4: it is machine-readable, now we used data type  '_type'

     */
    struct Metadata {
        string title;
        string kind;
        string description;
    }
```

### 2. Values Information

> This structure will be used to define the actual claim information, based on the description of the `Metadata` structure, the structure is similar to `Values` structure of [EIP-3475](./eip-3475.md).

Reviewer 3: > the structure is similar to `Values` structure of EIP-3475.

If the structure is different from the one in EIP-3475, you have to say how it's different. If the structure is the same, don't say "similar".

The specification section should stand alone and be understandable without needing to look at the reference implementation. Right now, I have no idea how `Values` is supposed to look.

### 3. Claim structure

Claims (eg. `age >= 18`, jurisdiction in allowlist, etc.) are represented by one or many instances of the `Claim` structure below:

```solidity
    /** Claims
    * 
    * Claims structure consist of the conditions and value that holder claims to associate and verifier has to validate them.

>     * @notice the below given parameters are for reference purposes only, developers can optimize the fields that are needed to be represented on-chain by using schemes like TLV, encoding into base64 etc.

Reviewer 3: These two sentences seem to be at odds:

> Claims [...] are represented by one or many instances of the `Claim` structure below:

> the below given parameters are for reference purposes only

What is the `Claim` structure supposed to look like?

Reviewer 4: `{
   "title":"age",
   "type":"unit",
   "description":"age of the person based on the birth date on the legal document",
   "logic":">=",
   "value":"18"
}`

    * @dev structure that defines the parameters for specific claims of the SBT certificate
    * @notice this structure is used for the verification process, it contains the metadata, logic and expectation
    * @notice logic can represent either the enum format for defining the different operations, or they can be logic operators (stored in form of ASCII figure based on unicode standard). like  e.g: 

> ("⊄" = U+2284, "⊂" = U+2282,  "<" = U+003C , "<=" = U + 2265,"==" = U + 003D, "!="U + 2260, ">=" = U + 2265,">" =  U + 2262).

Reviewer 3: I still don't understand what `logic` is supposed to look like or how it is supposed to be used. Is it supposed to be parsed by other contracts? By off-chain software? Is it just a human-readable string?

Reviewer 4: it can be used for both front-end and smart-contract logic:
in this example, the more than 18 yrs can be used by off-chain applications, such as an adult website to confirm that the wallet holder is more than 18 yrs old. secondly, when a smart contract try to read the logic, it can decipher the logic string and convert this into code logic. Again, in this example, off-chain or on-chain applications can convert this operator into code logic
`if (logic==">="){};`
`if (logic=="<"){};`

When it is on the frontend use case for human readable info,it can be converted to string that UI will be displaying for human.

    */
    struct Claim {
        Metadata metadata;
        string logic;
        Values expectation;
   
    }
```

description of some logic functions that can be used are as follows: 

| Symbol | Description |
|--------|--------------|
| ⊄ | does not belong to the set of values (or range) defined by the corresponding `Values`  |
| ⊂ | condition that the parameter belongs to one of values defined by the `Values`  |
| < | condition that the parameter is greater than  value defined by the `Values`  |
| == | condition that the parameter is strictly equal to the value defined by the `Values` structure |

#### Example

```json
{
   "title":"age",
   "type":"unit",
   "description":"age of the person based on the birth date on the legal document",
   "logic":">=",
   "value":"18"
}
```

> Defines the condition encoded for the identity index 1 (i.e the holder must be equal or more than 18 years old).

Reviewer 3: I don't think you've mentioned what an identity index is before here.

### Interface specification

#### Verifier

```solidity

>     /// @notice getter function to validate if the address `claimer` is the holder of the claim Defined by the tokenId `SBTID`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// @notice getter function to validate if the address `claimer` is the holder of the claim defined by the tokenId `SBTID`
```

>     /// @dev it MUST be Defining the logic to fetch the result of the ownership verification of NFT(with metadata generated using ZK schemes).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    /// @dev it MUST be defining the logic to fetch the result of the ownership verification of NFT (with metadata generated using ZK schemes).
```

>     /// @dev it MUST be Defining the logic to fetch the result of the ownership verification of NFT(with metadata generated using ZK schemes).

Reviewer 3: What NFT? What defines the logic? Isn't ownership just `ownerOf`?

Reviewer 4: Here we rectify as "It MUST be defining the conditional operator (logic explained below) to allow the application to convert it into code logic "

>     /// @dev logic given here MUST be one of ("⊄", "⊂", "<", "<=", "==", "!=", ">=", ">")

Reviewer 3: There is no `logic` given in this function?

Reviewer 4: see the above logic as a conditional operator

>     /// @dev logic given here MUST be one of ("⊄", "⊂", "<", "<=", "==", "!=", ">=", ">")

Reviewer 3: If `logic` is something other than one of these options, what happens? The documentation for the `Claim` struct allows for other values

Reviewer 4: These are basic relational logic for minimal KYC constraint usage, more complex logic can be defined by multiple claims.

>     /// @param claimer is the EOA address that wants to validate the SBT issued to it by the KYC. 

Reviewer 3: Should `KYC` be `issuer`?

---
eip: 5851
title: Zero-Knowledge KYC Certificates
description: Interface for assigning/validating identities using Zero Knowledge Proofs
author: Yu Liu (@yuliu-debond), Dhruv Malik (@dhruvmalik007), Junyi Zhong (@Jooeys)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-5815-kyc-certification-issuer-and-verifier-standard/11513
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-10-18

> requires: 721, 1155, 3643, 5114, 1167, 1967

Reviewer: Must be in ascending order.

---
## Abstract

> This interface provides a means of issuing and verifying on-chain certifications, specifying the claims as on-chain metadata.

Reviewer 3: [EIP-1](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1#what-belongs-in-a-successful-eip) recommends that the Abstract be a multi-sentence paragraph containing a technical summary.

While this paragraph meets the terseness requirement, I don't think it gives enough of an overview of the proposal. I'd like to see a bit more content here. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
This proposal introduces a method of certifying that a particular address meets a claim, and a method of verifying those certifications using on-chain metadata. Claims are conditions that may be satisfied (for example: `age >= 18`), and are certified by issuers using a Soulbound Token (SBT).
```

Author: @yuliu-debond, I have added this change but if you can recommend an abstract that explains comprehensively.

Reviewer 4: I rewrite it as "Claims are assertions or statements made about a subject having certain properties that may be met conditions (for example: `age >= 18`), and are certified by issuers using a Soundbound Token(SBT)."

### Definitions

- ZK: Zero-knowledge. Refers to a cryptographic system in which a characteristic of an entity can be proven without revealing which entity the proof refers to.

> - SBT: Known as soulbound tokens, these are non-fungible and non transferrable tokens that is used for defining the identity of the users.

Reviewer 3: In the `description:` header, you capitalize soulbound. Please choose a consistent capitalization for the entire document.

The motivation behind this proposal is to create a standard for verifier and issuer smart contracts to communicate with each other in a more efficient way. This will reduce the cost of KYC processes, and provide the possibility for on-chain KYC checks.  By creating a standard for communication between verifiers and issuers, it will create an ecosystem in which users can be sure their data is secure and private. This will ultimately lead to more efficient KYC processes and help create a more trustful environment for users. It will also help to ensure that all verifier and issuer smart contracts are up-to-date with the most recent KYC regulations.

## Specification

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Metadata Standard

> We will be storing the following structures to store the claims:

Reviewer 3: You should write your requirements with the following form:

```suggestion
Claims MUST be stored in the following structures:
```

> ### 1. Metadata information

Reviewer 3: Should this be one level deeper?

```suggestion
#### 1. Metadata information
```

> We will store the metadata corresponding ot the each claim requirement, the structure is similar to the [EIP-3475](./eip-3475.md):

Reviewer 3: EIPs should not make requirements on implementation, instead only specifying the externally visible properties of the contract. Instead of describing how the metadata is stored, you should specify how it is exposed.

```suggestion
Each claim requirement MUST be exposed using the following struct:
```

```solidity
    /** Metadata
    * 
    * @param title defines the name of the claim field

>     * @param _type is the nature of the data (bool,string,address,bytes,..)

Author: i think it can be a fixed data type but also a generic type (if solidity will start defining the abstract data type in the next versions) but in any case, this MUST match the type of actual value stored by the Values structure at that stage.

>     * @param _type is the nature of the data (bool,string,address,bytes,..)

Reviewer 3: The text in the specification (now `kind is the nature of the data (bool,string,address,bytes,..)`) gives no indication of where these values are supposed to come from. If these are supposed to be the Solidity data types, you'll need to actually say that somewhere in your proposal.

    * @param description additional information about claim details.
     */
    struct Metadata {
        string title;
        string _type;
        string description;
    }
```

### 2. Values Information

> this structure will be used to define the actual claim information, based on the description of the Metadata structure, it can represent any data type represented by the solidity(or developers can define the generic type). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
this structure will be used to define the actual claim information, based on the description of the `Metadata` structure, it can represent any data type represented by the solidity(or developers can define the generic type). 
```

If you are referring to a particular struct, use backticks to mark it as code.

```solidity
    /** Values
    * 
    * @dev Values here can be read and wrote by smart contract and front-end, cited from [EIP-3475](./eip-3475.md) 
    */   
    struct Values { 
        string stringValue;
        uint uintValue;
        address addressValue;
        bool boolValue;
    }

> ```

Reviewer 3: Either:
 - Transcribe the struct here, and omit the reference to EIP-3475; or
 - Remove the struct from this EIP, add EIP-3475 to your `requires:` header, and mention that the `Values` struct comes from that EIP.

If the standards are separate, there's really no point in creating the link. If they are related, then you should explicitly require it.

### 3. Claim structure

> This will store the content about the claims that user wants to convey (ie age >= 18, jurisdiction not from the blacklisted countries, etc). these will be stored as the combination of one or many claim structure detail attributes as defined below: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Claims (eg. `age >= 18`, jurisdiction in allowlist, etc.) are represented by one or many instances of the `Claim` structure below:
```

```solidity
    /** Claims
    * 
    * Claims structure consist of the conditions and value that holder claims to associate and verifier has to validate them.
    * @notice the below given parameters are for reference purposes only, developers can optimize the fields that are needed to be represented on-chain by using schemes like TLV, encoding into base64 etc.
    * @dev structure that DeFines the parameters for specific claims of the SBT certificate
    * @notice this structure is used for the verification process, it contains the metadata, logic and expectation

>     * @logic given here MUST be one of ("⊄", "⊂", "<", "<=", "==", "!=", ">=",">")

Reviewer 3: If these are the only permitted values, would it make more sense to use an enumeration or an integer?

---

Regardless of the above, the operations these symbols represent should be defined in this EIP.

Author: for now, I have defined some of the examples with the table giving the example. but given that there are numerous operations in the set operations, maintaining them in the standard will be redundant, and rather than that we can simply tell developers to follow standard ASCII operations in order to define the function logic.

    */
    struct Claim {
        Metadata metadata;
        string logic;
        Values expectation;
   
    }
```

#### Example

```json
 {
    { "title":"age",
        "type": "uint",
        "description": "age of the person based on the birth date on the legal document",
        },
       "logic": ">=",
    "value":"18"  
 }

> ```

Reviewer 3: This doesn't look like valid JSON?

> Defines the condition encoded for the identity index 1. DeFining the identity condition that holder must be equal or more than 18 years old.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Defines the condition encoded for the identity index 1. Defining the identity condition that holder must be equal or more than 18 years old.
```

    * @dev standardChanged MUST also be triggered for the creation of a new SBTID.
    e.g : emit StandardChanged(1, Claims(Metadata('age', 'uint', 'age of the person based on the birth date on the legal document' ), ">=", "18");
    is emitted when the Claim condition is changed which allows the certificate holder to call the functions with the modifier, claims that the holder must be equal or more than 18 years old.
    */
    event StandardChanged(uint256 SBTID, Claim[] _claims);
    
    /** 
    * certified
    * @notice certified MUST be triggered when the SBT certificate is given to the certifying address. 
    * eg: Certified(0xfoo,2); means that wallet holder address `0xfoo` is certified to hold a certificate issued with id 2, and thus can satisfy all the conditions defined by the required interface.
    */
    event Certified(address claimer, uint256 SBTID);
    
    /** 
    * revoked
    * @notice revoked MUST be triggered when the SBT certificate is revoked. 
    * eg: Revoked( 0xfoo,1); means that entity user 0xfoo has been revoked to all the function access defined by the SBT ID 1.
    */
    event Revoked(address claimer, uint256 SBTID);
}
```

## Rationale

> 

Reviewer 3: The `Rationale` section is not optional, though you can leave it as "TBD" for now:

```suggestion
TBD
```
